readme.md, before:

# Playtestr

Playtestr is a Ruby system for generating a PDF suitable for playtesting and prototyping physical card games.

## Installing Playtestr

1. Pull playtestr down from GitHub
2. Run ``bundle install`` to install the gems we depend on
3. Run ``ruby playtestr.rb`` to start the script and make sure it completes successfully

## Using Playtestr

A cards.yml file is used to store the contents of the cards you wish to create. You can specify the quantity in addition to information like the card name, rules text and cost. If you want to add additional properties to the cards.yml file, that's possible, but you'll need to modify the code so that it renders where and how you want it to.

After running, exported files are saved in ``export/``. You may wish to copy the files generated here elsewhere so they do not get rewritten.

## Command Line Interface

We've recently added some command line options to give you greater control over the cards you generate:

### CLI Options

```
-v | --verbose : display console output while running
-c CARDYAML | --cards CARDYAML : defaults to "import/cards.yml", the YAML file it will use for reference
-o OUTPUT | --output OUTPUT : the file to export to. Defaults to "export/rendered_XXXXXX.ext" where XXXX is the microtime and ext is the output extension (defaults to PDF)
-s CSSFILE | --stylesheet CSSFILE : The css file to use when doing HTML output, optional. Defaults to "assets/stylesheets/default.css"
```

### CLI Examples

```bash
# Super basic: 
./playtestr.rb

# Super basic, verbose: 
./playtestr.rb -v

# Custom YAML input: 
./playtestr.rb -c "import/cards.yml"

# HTML output: 
./playtestr.rb -o "export/foo.html"

# Super tweaked: 
./playtestr.rb -v -c "/path/to/my/cards.yml" -o "/path/to/my/export/new_cards.pdf"
```

## Contributing to Playtestr

To add new code please:

1. Fork `playtestr`
2. Write your code
3. Make sure the tests are pssing using rspec
4. Submit a pull request

To report an issue or request a feature, please use our handy [issue tracker](http://github.com/armahillo/playtestr/issues)

## Contributors

Derived from [jburdeezy/playtest](https://github.com/jburdeezy/playtest). Many thanks to @jburdeezy for creating it and @diachini for additional contributions.

Commit message:

Extracts I/O functionality to rake tasks; adds OpenSans fonts
This addresses two issues:

 1) We really need the import and export processes to be marshalled a
    little more heavily and for the import/ and export/ folders to be
more robust in their usage in this process.

 2) The current fonts are constrained to basic latin alphabets, and
    break with any UTF8 characters - unfortunately, even in English this
breaks easily when any non-standard quotation marks or other glyphs are
used (common in word processors)

The freely available and openly licensed OpenSans font is both
reasonably aesthetic and readily available. This has been added, and the
PDF Template has had this added as the default. There are three
variants, and each have subtypes defined for various styles. It will
"just work".

There are default rake tasks we get for free: :clobber and :clean, and
we can tap into them to help keep the import/ and export/ files tidy.
This has been configured in the Rakefile.

Separate tasks for import and export are defined in individual rake
extensions under lib/tasks. The import task pulls from a CSV source
file, converts it, and dumps it to a YML file in import/. The export
task, for now, just gathers all files in import/ and converts each of
them and exports the rendered PDF into the export/ folder.

Some additional formatting is done in the PDF to make more text fit onto
the cards and make them look a little nicer.

readme.md, after:

# Playtestr

Playtestr is a Ruby system for generating a PDF suitable for playtesting and prototyping physical card games.

## Installing Playtestr

1. Pull playtestr down from GitHub
2. Run ``bundle install`` to install the gems we depend on
3. Run ``ruby playtestr.rb`` to start the script and make sure it completes successfully

## Using Playtestr

A cards.yml file is used to store the contents of the cards you wish to create. You can specify the quantity in addition to information like the card name, rules text and cost. If you want to add additional properties to the cards.yml file, that's possible, but you'll need to modify the code so that it renders where and how you want it to.

After running, exported files are saved in ``export/``. You may wish to copy the files generated here elsewhere so they do not get rewritten.

## Command Line Interface

We've recently added some command line options to give you greater control over the cards you generate:

### CLI Options

```
-v | --verbose : display console output while running
-c CARDYAML | --cards CARDYAML : defaults to "import/cards.yml", the YAML file it will use for reference
-o OUTPUT | --output OUTPUT : the file to export to. Defaults to "export/rendered_XXXXXX.ext" where XXXX is the microtime and ext is the output extension (defaults to PDF)
-s CSSFILE | --stylesheet CSSFILE : The css file to use when doing HTML output, optional. Defaults to "assets/stylesheets/default.css"
```

### CLI Examples

#### New Style
```bash
# Import from a CSV file -- you can also just create your own YML manually in the /import folder
./rake import:csv[/path/to/your/csv_file.csv]

# Export all of the YMLs in /import into comparable PDFs in the /export folder
./rake export:all[pdf]
```

#### Old Style
```bash
# Super basic: 
./playtestr.rb

# Super basic, verbose: 
./playtestr.rb -v

# Custom YAML input: 
./playtestr.rb -c "import/cards.yml"

# HTML output: 
./playtestr.rb -o "export/foo.html"

# Super tweaked: 
./playtestr.rb -v -c "/path/to/my/cards.yml" -o "/path/to/my/export/new_cards.pdf"
```

## Contributing to Playtestr

To add new code please:

1. Fork `playtestr`
2. Write your code
3. Make sure the tests are pssing using rspec
4. Submit a pull request

To report an issue or request a feature, please use our handy [issue tracker](http://github.com/armahillo/playtestr/issues)

## Contributors

Derived from [jburdeezy/playtest](https://github.com/jburdeezy/playtest). Many thanks to @jburdeezy for creating it and @diachini for additional contributions.
